In this concept, we will learn about how memory is managed in solidity.
We will talk in detail about these topics as we move onto more relevant concepts,
but I wanted to give you a little high-level overview on these keywords.
Let me introduce you to the keywords memory and storage.
Memory is divided into three areas,
storage, memory, and calldata.
As a developer, you can use the keywords memory, and storage.
Let's talk about storage first.
Now storage, think of it as
a database layer where contract's data is stored and persisted.
Read and write operations are costly for storage data.
Memory is for temporary storage and is used for call code execution.
You can allocate memory for complex types like arrays and structures.
The data in memory is lost after execution.
Calldata area is like a call stack,
it is temporary and non-modifiable.
It is used for function calls,
maximum size is 256 bit boots.
Now, if you have multiple recursive calls,
it can lead to call stack error.
For now, the main point that I really want you to remember is that,
state variables are always stored in storage.
Now, these are the variables that are outside any function.
Local variables inside functions are just references to data in storage.
Data for function arguments by default,
is located in memory.
You can use the keywords,
storage and memory to change this default storage behavior.
I don't want you to be overwhelmed with this information right now,
it will get more clear as we move on to relevant topics.
Now, just to recap again,
by default, like I mentioned already in a previous slide,
all state variables in the beginning of the contract outside
any functions that are not inside any function are stored in storage.
So, you don't have to specify the word storage,
they will automatically be stored in storage.
Hence the count variable,
if you look on the code on your screen and also the array points,
are all by default going to be in storage.
For local arrays inside any function,
they should be specifically labeled as storage or memory.
Now, if you don't put a label,
it is going to put in storage,
but the compiler will still compile,
give you compiler error and ask you to label it as storage.
It will still compile,
but it's going to complain that it really likes to see the word storage over there.
Now, we can specifically change the default behavior and store it in memory,
like we are doing in the memory array example on your screen right now.
The pointer array that you see here is inside a function,
this is fine just because it is pointing towards an array in storage.
Now, this is just a high-level overview of memory types.
Again, we have three types of memories;
memory, storage, and calldata.
You are going to be using these words memory and storage quite often,
especially when you use strings,
bytes, and every types as we move forward.
So, as we get into complex data types,
we will discuss these topics in more detail.